SOURCE: https://support.strava.com/en-us/articles/15402141-auto-pause
TITLE: Auto-Pause
FOUND-VIA: Strava moving time elapsed time auto pause article
---
Auto-Pause | Strava Help Center Skip to main content Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Search for articles... All Collections Devices and Third-Party Apps Strava for Android Auto-Pause Auto-Pause Learn how Auto Pause works on Strava for running and cycling, how it calculates your moving time, and how to turn it on or off in your recording settings. Written by Marie Updated over 2 weeks ago Table of contents Enabling Auto Pause Cycling Running Auto Pause Off For Runs With Auto Pause Disabled When Auto Pause is enabled, Strava will automatically pause when you are resting during your activity. Auto Pause alleviates the need to manually pause your activity each time you stop. Enabling Auto Pause Navigate to the record screen using the circular record button (center of the bottom toolbar). Expand the menu by sliding it up from the bottom of your screen. Tap on Settings . From here, you can set Auto Pause to off, for runs only, or for rides only. Cycling Auto Pause for cycling uses GPS movement to automatically detect when you are at rest. Once you resume moving, Auto Pause will turn off. Because this feature is GPS-based, it's important to note that if you are taking a break to go indoors or to someplace where GPS line of sight is obscured, you should use the manual pause feature to prevent miscalculations. Cycling Auto Pause will be on by default, but can be turned off on your settings page. Running This is a motion-based (accelerometer) Auto Pause that uses your running movement to automatically detect when you are at rest. Users will hear audio announcements for Auto Pause events if split announcements are on or live segment audio is enabled. Auto Pause Off If you choose to turn Auto Pause off, Strava will calculate your moving and resting time during the upload process instead of during the activity. For Runs With Auto Pause Disabled We will perform server-side resting-time calculations (per above) unless there are manual pause events . If there are manual pause events, we assume that you want to control the time and will calculate moving time with respect to the timer time instead. Keep in mind that if you manually pause the app, you must resume it before continuing your activity, even if Auto Pause is enabled. For more information about Auto Pause, please refer to this article. Related Articles Moving Time, Speed, and Pace Calculations How Does Strava Calculate Activity Time? How do I fix Autopause Issues? How to Use Auto-Pause on iOS How do I Record an Activity on Strava? Did this answer your question? Disappointed Reaction 😞 Neutral Reaction 😐 Smiley Reaction 😃 Table of contents Enabling Auto Pause Cycling Running Auto Pause Off For Runs With Auto Pause Disabled Ask our Chatbot
