SOURCE: https://support.strava.com/en-us/articles/15401909-elevation
TITLE: Elevation
---
Elevation | Strava Help Center Skip to main content Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Search for articles... All Collections Activity Analysis and Stats Stats, Metrics, and Performance Elevation Elevation See how Strava calculates elevation gain from barometric altimeters, GPS data, and our elevation basemap, plus tips for improving accuracy. Written by Marie Updated over 2 weeks ago Table of contents What Is It? How Do I Use This? How Elevation Is Calculated Elevation on a Segment Elevation on Activity Pages Elevation on a Route The Details Barometric Altimeters Typical Problems With Barometric Devices Other Known Issues and Problematic Terrain Elevation Challenges What Is It? The elevation profile gives a visual model of the amount and severity of climbing and descending in your activity and where on the route it occurred. How Do I Use This? When set against metrics like pace, cadence, heart rate, or power, you can see how elevation and incline (uphill or downhill) affected your output, effort, and speed. This can give you a more complete picture of your activity and whether you met your goals than metrics like pace or speed alone. Strava uses a variety of methods to calculate elevation. For more details, read the sections below. How Elevation Is Calculated It is important to remember that elevation data from all sources (barometric altimeters, GPS signals, and databases) is subject to error and that the elevation gain for an activity is an estimate. We are always working on improving our elevation data sets and algorithms. Elevation on a Segment Segments are always created from a Strava activity, and as a result, they inherit some of that activity's characteristics. If the original activity was recorded by a GPS device with a barometric altimeter, the segment will use the barometric data recorded by that device. If the original activity was not recorded by a barometric device, or if a Strava admin has rebuilt the elevation for that segment, we will cross-reference the GPS data against Strava's elevation base map to determine the elevation. Elevation on Activity Pages Elevation on activity pages will be calculated in one of two ways: by cross-referencing GPS data with a database, or by using the barometric data in the original file. A device with barometric altimeter: If the GPS device used to record your activity has a barometric altimeter, Strava will use the elevation data in the original file. We do some smoothing to the data, which includes discarding outliers to reduce noise. The amount of smoothing is less on activities with barometric data than it is for activities without barometric data. If your device has a barometric altimeter, but your elevation is being recalculated, please refer to the FAQs . A device without a barometric altimeter and the Strava mobile app: If your activity was recorded with the mobile app or with a GPS device that does not have a barometric altimeter, Strava will use your activity's GPS data to look up the elevation for each point you record. We do some smoothing to the data, which includes discarding outliers to reduce noise. The amount of smoothing is more on activities without barometric data than it is for activities with barometric data. While we attempt to match your activity path to the actual trails and roads in the area, elevation calculations still depend somewhat on your GPS data and the accuracy of the database for that region. If you have questions or feedback about your activity's elevation data, please let us know by filling out this form . Please note that your responses may be used to improve the elevation basemap or fix any issues, but you may not hear back from us. Elevation on a Route Our Strava Route Builder uses our own personal database to calculate elevation data. The GPS data for the route is cross-referenced with this database when calculating the route elevation. The Details Elevation Databases In the past, we consulted public elevation databases to determine the elevation at each point in the activity. The resolution of these databases varied based on location, and we were not able to control for the many errors in these databases. We now have an elevation lookup service powered by data from the Strava community. Each activity that is uploaded from a device with a barometric altimeter is used to build the Strava elevation basemap . To account for inherent variability in GPS data, we use an algorithm to ensure we look up the elevation for the road or trail you were actually on. The red line in the image below is an example of GPS data drifting away from the actual trail, shown in blue. Our algorithm has recognized this and will use the elevation data represented by the blue line instead of the actual, and slightly off, GPS data. Limitations of the Strava Elevation Basemap There may not be basemap data available for all or part of your activity. In this case, we will use a public database to look up your elevation data. A dense road network or poor-quality GPS data could also prevent us from selecting the correct reference points in the basemap or public database. Barometric Altimeters Barometric altimeters determine altitude by measuring atmospheric pressure. Measurements can be affected by changes in the weather or the sensor holes getting blocked by water or other debris. Device manufacturers may provide basic calibration procedures. For example, Garmin devices with barometric altimeters allow a certain number of manual elevation points to be set; starting an activity near an elevation point causes the device to use the known elevation as the starting point. Consult the manual for your device to learn about calibration procedures. We generally consider the data from barometric altimeters to be of higher quality than the data derived from GPS signals and prefer that when processing activities. Typical Problems With Barometric Devices The elevation profile looks like it is drifting over time. This can happen with barometric altimeters as the weather changes, for example, the atmospheric pressure rises or drops, causing the altimeter to measure as though it is at a lower or higher altitude. Other Known Issues and Problematic Terrain The activity has areas where the elevation is zero or is very linear. This can happen when crossing bridges or passing through areas where we don't have coverage. Coastlines can be particularly problematic. We attempt to fill in the data by interpolating data; the interpolation depends on where the missing data begins and ends. The elevation profile has climbs, but the elevation gain is very small. We smooth the data before calculating gain and depending on the resulting data, elevation changes may not be enough to pass a threshold that we use for determining whether or not you have gained elevation. The elevation profile has climbs, but the elevation gain is very large. This often happens with activities recorded in mountainous areas outside of the US. The resolution of the data sets can be coarse and the profile may be bumpier than it should be even with interpolation and smoothing. Sometimes they are so coarse it's like trying to find a smooth elevation profile over a Lego block model of your area. These bumps may pass the threshold in gain calculations and the total gain from the bumps may add up to more than the gain that was perceived on the ride. Elevation Challenges Strava hosts a variety of athletic challenges for our athletes, some of which have elevation or climbing goals. Due to the high visibility of these challenge leaderboards, elevation-based errors will surface more readily than they normally would. As mentioned above, there are many uncontrollable variables involved in calculating elevation gain. These variables can lead to exaggerated elevation totals, particularly if the activity takes place in an international, mountainous, or coastal region. If you notice activities with inaccurate elevation gain, please do not flag them. Most of the time this is a result of poor database resolution, which is out of the athlete's control. Click here for FAQs Related Articles Why is my Activity's Elevation Different From My Friend's? Strava's Elevation Basemap How to Get Power for Your Rides Elevation on Strava FAQs How do I Record an Activity on Strava? Did this answer your question? Disappointed Reaction 😞 Neutral Reaction 😐 Smiley Reaction 😃 Table of contents What Is It? How Do I Use This? How Elevation Is Calculated Elevation on a Segment Elevation on Activity Pages Elevation on a Route The Details Barometric Altimeters Typical Problems With Barometric Devices Other Known Issues and Problematic Terrain Elevation Challenges Ask our Chatbot
