SOURCE: https://support.strava.com/en-us/articles/15401762-heart-rate
TITLE: Heart Rate
---
Heart Rate | Strava Help Center Skip to main content Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Search for articles... All Collections Activity Analysis and Stats Stats, Metrics, and Performance Heart Rate Heart Rate Learn how Strava tracks your heart rate during activities, from BPM and Heart Rate Zones to Relative Effort, so you can measure workout intensity and progress. Written by Marie Updated over 2 weeks ago Table of contents What Is It? How Do I Use This? The Details What Is It? Heart rate shows how hard you're working. It's measured in beats per minute (BPM) and, as a percentage of your maximum heart rate, is a key indicator of exertion level and helps determine the zone(s) you worked out in. You can change or enter your max HR in your profile settings here . A heart rate monitor is required to track this. How Do I Use This? Heart rate is an effective metric for evaluating workout intensity and its impact on your fitness. You can analyze your heart rate data in two ways: the Heart Rate chart and Heart Rate Zones. The Heart Rate chart visualizes your real-time heart rate throughout an activity, with your average and maximum heart rates displayed below. This real-time heart rate graph is overlaid on an elevation chart, allowing you to observe how changes in elevation influenced your heart rate and, consequently, your exertion levels. Heart Rate Zones offer a high-level overview of your effort management during an activity by showing the percentage of time spent in each zone. These zones categorize strain levels, ranging from Zone 1 (active recovery) to Zone 5 (near maximum effort). Your maximum heart rate determines these zones, and the time spent in each zone helps you quickly assess the training impact of an activity, from recovery to high stress. The Details Measuring your heart rate during workouts can help you better understand your fitness over time, since it's a great indicator of how hard you're pushing yourself and how well your body responds to demanding activities. Heart rate data unlocks a number of helpful features for Strava subscribers, including Relative Effort , Heart Rate Zones , and automatic updates to your Fitness Score . Strava is compatible with a number of GPS devices that record heart rate data, including Garmin, Fitbit, Apple Watch, Wahoo, Polar, Suunto, and TomTom.* To connect a GPS watch or other supported devices: On the web: Select the plus sign icon in the upper right corner, then choose Upload activity from the drop-down menu. Click Get Started under the device you wish to upload from. Follow the on-screen prompts to finish connecting your accounts. On the mobile app: Open your settings using the settings icon in the upper-right corner of the You tab. Tap Link Other Services on Android or Applications, Services, and Devices on iOS. Tap Connect a device to Strava . Select the device brand you're using and follow the instructions to connect your Strava account. If you don't see the brand you're looking for, check the Strava website using the instructions above. *Please note that in order for an activity to contain heart rate data, that activity must be recorded with a device with a heart rate sensor. If an activity is recorded with a device that does not have a heart rate sensor, unfortunately, that activity will not display heart rate data. Heart rate data from another device or service, such as Apple Health, cannot be merged into your activity. If you have a standalone Bluetooth heart rate monitor, you can pair it directly with Strava . After you've connected Strava to a compatible device and if you've allowed Strava to collect and process health-related data , heart rate data will be shared with the rest of the data in your activity uploads. You can hide heart rate data from your activity posts if you'd prefer not to share it with other members. Related Articles Training Zones on Strava Fitness Relative Effort How Do I Customize My Heart Rate Zones on Strava? Viewing Activities Did this answer your question? Disappointed Reaction 😞 Neutral Reaction 😐 Smiley Reaction 😃 Table of contents What Is It? How Do I Use This? The Details Ask our Chatbot
