SOURCE: https://support.strava.com/en-us/articles/15402129-how-do-i-download-a-gpx-route-from-other-athletes-activities-on-strava
TITLE: How Do I Download a GPX Route From Other Athletes' Activities on Strava?
---
How Do I Download a GPX Route From Other Athletes' Activities on Strava? | Strava Help Center Skip to main content Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Search for articles... All Collections Activity Analysis and Stats Maps, GPS, and Location How Do I Download a GPX Route From Other Athletes' Activities on Strava? How Do I Download a GPX Route From Other Athletes' Activities on Strava? Learn how to download a GPX route file from another athlete's Strava activity and load it onto your Garmin Edge device to follow their exact course today. Written by Marie Updated over 2 weeks ago Strava provides the option to download or export the route data of another Strava athlete's activity. This data can then be downloaded onto a Garmin Edge device to use the map or course features. On any activity page that you're viewing, you'll see a GPX Download button located at the top right corner of the activity's map (highlighted below). Click this button to download the GPX file to your computer. Plug your Garmin device into your computer. Navigate to the Garmin drive on your computer and find the folder labeled "Garmin". Inside the Garmin folder, there should be a subfolder labeled "NewFiles" or "GPX". Simply drop your downloaded GPX file into this folder and then safely disconnect your Garmin as you would any other USB device. (The method used to get the downloaded GPX file on your Garmin device will vary based on your computer setup, but in general, you can think of your Garmin as you would any other USB drive.) Now, when you turn on your Garmin Edge device, you should find the route under the "Courses" menu, and you're ready to go. For Garmin 500 devices, the "Courses" feature requires a TCX file to be downloaded onto the device. GPX files are tied to an athlete's privacy controls . All activities available for export are stripped of any performance data upon download and respect map visibility, except for your own file. If an activity's privacy controls are set to "Only You", only the athlete who owns the activity can export the GPX file. For instructions on how to export GPX files from your own activities that include time data, see here . Related Articles How Do I Follow a Route on Strava? How Do Community Routes on Strava Work? Syncing Strava Routes to Your Garmin Device How Do I Export My Strava Data? How do I Get My Activities to Strava? Did this answer your question? Disappointed Reaction 😞 Neutral Reaction 😐 Smiley Reaction 😃 Ask our Chatbot
