SOURCE: https://support.strava.com/en-us/articles/15401919-how-do-i-export-my-strava-data
TITLE: How Do I Export My Strava Data?
FOUND-VIA: Strava supported file types upload GPX TCX FIT site:support.strava.com
---
How Do I Export My Strava Data? | Strava Help Center Skip to main content Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Search for articles... All Collections Your Account and Privacy Profile Management How Do I Export My Strava Data? How Do I Export My Strava Data? Learn how to export your Strava activity files in FIT, TCX, or GPX format, and how to request a full bulk export of your account and Developer Hub data. Written by Marie Updated over 3 weeks ago Table of contents Export Original TCX Export GPX Export Exporting Your Developers Hub Data Bulk Export There are several options for exporting your data from Strava. We generally recommend exporting the original version of an activity file. Please note that exporting your data is only available on the Strava website. Export Original Strava provides the option to export the original version of the activity file from any of your activity pages. In many cases, the original will be in FIT (Flexible and Interoperable Data Transfer) format. This format is specifically designed for health data, fitness, and sport recordings. The FIT format can store information such as sensor data, course points, workout instructions, device settings, etc. Navigate to one of your Activity pages and from the more (ellipses) menu, select "Export Original." ​ The activity file will be downloaded to your computer in the format in which it was originally uploaded. TCX Export Strava allows you to export TCX (Training Center XML) versions of your own activities. TCX files contain more information than GPX files, such as heart rate, cadence, and watts. TCX files exported from Strava will also contain power data. TCX export only works for activities with GPS data, which may exclude indoor activities with no GPS. Not many people know about this trick, but it is simple to use. Simply add "/export_tcx" (without quotes) to the end of your activity page URL. For example, if your activity page is www.strava.com/activities/2865391236 , just add the text to give you www.strava.com/activities/2865391236/export_tcx and hit enter. This will download a TCX version of your file to the location specified by your browser's preferences. GPX Export If you would like to back up your data or share a file, Strava provides the option to export as GPX from any of your activity pages. GPX (Global Positioning XML) files record GPS waypoints, and any activity that does not contain GPS data will produce an unreadable or empty file. GPX files exported from Strava will contain power data recorded with a power meter but not estimated power. Navigate to one of your Activity pages, and from the More (ellipsis) menu, select "Export GPX." ​ The file will then download to your computer with the file extension ".gpx." This file will contain your GPS coordinates, timestamps, and accessory data like heart rate, cadence, and temperature. This file can be downloaded to a Garmin device with route-tracking functionality (such as a Garmin Edge 800), shared with other users, or kept for your records. Many other GPS programs will also accept this file format. Exporting Your Developers Hub Data Developer Hub (formerly Community Hub) members can export their Developer Hub information, provided their account is still active, upon request. Submit an email to developers@strava.com to request the export. Bulk Export As of May 25th, 2018, Strava provides the option to export an archive of your account. Log in to the account on Strava.com from which you wish to bulk export data. Hover over your name in the upper right-hand corner of the Strava page. Choose "Settings," then find the " My Account " tab from the menu listed on the left. Select "Get Started" under "Download your account." On the next page, select "Request download." You will receive an email with a link to download your data (this may take a few hours). For this reason, it's important that you have access to the email account attached to your Strava profile. If you need to change your email, see here . Related Articles How Do I Follow a Route on Strava? How do I Get My Activities to Strava? How Do I Download a GPX Route From Other Athletes' Activities on Strava? Moving your activity history from MapMyRun to Strava Moving your activity history from MapMyRide to Strava Did this answer your question? Disappointed Reaction 😞 Neutral Reaction 😐 Smiley Reaction 😃 Table of contents Export Original TCX Export GPX Export Exporting Your Developers Hub Data Bulk Export Ask our Chatbot
