SOURCE: https://support.strava.com/en-us/articles/15401661-how-do-best-efforts-work-for-running-on-strava
TITLE: How Do Best Efforts Work for Running on Strava?
---
How Do Best Efforts Work for Running on Strava? | Strava Help Center Skip to main content Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Search for articles... All Collections Activity Analysis and Stats Best Efforts and Training Zones How Do Best Efforts Work for Running on Strava? How Do Best Efforts Work for Running on Strava? Track your running PRs from 400m to 50k with Best Efforts. See lifetime and annual bests, edit inaccurate times, and view your fastest pace by distance. Written by Marie Updated over 2 weeks ago Table of contents Edit Effort Remove Effort Distances Tracked Follow your progress at benchmark running distances from 400 meters to 50k with Best Efforts, available only in the mobile app. See below for a full list of distances tracked. For support and troubleshooting help with Best Efforts, click here . Best Efforts tracks your top three lifetime efforts and top ten annual efforts at each distance, as well as your fastest efforts from each run. Find Best Efforts in the Progress tab after you've uploaded at least one run. Your most recent lifetime top three efforts will be displayed. Tap through and toggle between distances to see all your lifetime personal records (PRs), second and third best times at each. To see your top ten times from each year and a graph of your trend over time, tap View Analysis. You can filter by year to focus solely on annual best efforts. On every run you upload, you'll also see your fastest marks from that run for every benchmark distance you covered on both the mobile app and website. Your times are tracked automatically with GPS data from your running activities. Much like a race where the clock does not stop when you stop moving, Best Efforts on Strava uses your activity's elapsed time rather than moving time. You can edit or remove an effort if needed; see below for details. Edit Effort Need to amend a Best Effort? Click the "Edit Time" box under the result to enter a precise chip time from a race or correct for faulty GPS data. Changes will be reflected in Best Efforts and the Results module of the activity. This might result in the achievement banner being removed from the activity. The GPS data of the activity cannot be altered. Remove Effort Free Users Select "Remove Effort" under a result to remove the achievement banner from the activity and erase the time from Best Efforts. This will not delete your activity. If you remove a PR, your next fastest time will become your PR. Subscribers Within the best effort feature, you will be able to select the Best Effort to remove the achievement banner from the activity and erase the time from Best Efforts. This will not delete your activity. If you remove a PR, your next fastest time will become your PR. Distances Tracked 400m, 1K, 1/2 mile, 1 mile, 2 miles, 5K, 10K, 15K, 10 miles, 20K, half marathon, 30K, marathon, and 50k. Related Articles How Do Best-Effort Challenges Work on Strava? How Do Best Efforts Work for Cycling on Strava? What Are Best Efforts on Strava? Troubleshooting Best Efforts All-Time PRs Did this answer your question? Disappointed Reaction 😞 Neutral Reaction 😐 Smiley Reaction 😃 Table of contents Edit Effort Remove Effort Distances Tracked Ask our Chatbot
