SOURCE: https://support.strava.com/en-us/articles/15402173-how-do-i-bulk-upload-activities-to-strava
TITLE: How Do I Bulk Upload Activities to Strava?
---
How Do I Bulk Upload Activities to Strava? | Strava Help Center Skip to main content Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Search for articles... All Collections Recording and Uploading Activities Uploading Activities How Do I Bulk Upload Activities to Strava? How Do I Bulk Upload Activities to Strava? Bulk upload up to 25 activity files at once to Strava from your computer, with steps for choosing files and upload limits for free and subscribed athletes. Written by Marie Updated over 3 weeks ago You can upload up to 25 files at a time via the Strava website. Strava accepts .TCX, .FIT, and .GPX files that are 25 MB or smaller. Save the files you want to upload to a local folder on your computer. Log in to Strava.com and click the orange "plus" icon at the top-right of the screen, then choose Upload Activity and File from the menu. Click Choose files , browse to the local folder where your files are saved, and select the files you want to upload. Subscribers can upload up to 25 files at a time; athletes who are not subscribed to Strava can upload 15 files at a time. Related Articles How Do I Export My Strava Data? How do I Get My Activities to Strava? How Do I Download a GPX Route From Other Athletes' Activities on Strava? Moving your activity history from MapMyRun to Strava Moving your activity history from MapMyRide to Strava Did this answer your question? Disappointed Reaction 😞 Neutral Reaction 😐 Smiley Reaction 😃 Ask our Chatbot
