SOURCE: https://support.strava.com/en-us/articles/15401755-how-do-i-resolve-an-activity-flag-on-strava
TITLE: How Do I Resolve an Activity Flag on Strava?
---
How Do I Resolve an Activity Flag on Strava? | Strava Help Center Skip to main content Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Search for articles... All Collections Activity Analysis and Stats Editing and Managing Activities How Do I Resolve an Activity Flag on Strava? How Do I Resolve an Activity Flag on Strava? Learn how to resolve a flagged Strava activity by changing the sport type, using the crop or split tool, adjusting privacy, or confirming an eBike ride. Written by Marie Updated over a week ago Table of contents Viewing Your Flagged Activities What to Do If Your Activity Is Flagged Confirming Activity Type Viewing Your Flagged Activities If your activity has been flagged , it means it has been identified as potentially violating the segment leaderboard guidelines, either through automatic detection or by another Strava athlete. Flagged activities will not appear on the segment leaderboards. You can see the flagged status of your activity in several places: On the activity page in the Strava website or mobile app, there will be a red banner indicating that the activity has been flagged. In your feed on the Strava website, you'll see a flag icon next to the activity title. On the "My Activities" page on the Strava website, any flagged activities will be highlighted in red with a flag icon next to the activity title. What to Do If Your Activity Is Flagged An activity flag can be resolved from the activity details page. The flag banner will include specific instructions on how to resolve the flag. After you select the appropriate flag option, you will be walked through the steps to resolve it. Change the activity's sport type if it was accidentally recorded or uploaded under the wrong type. The most common reasons an activity is flagged as "Wrong Sport Type" are when a ride is uploaded as a run or an eBike ride is uploaded as a ride. Use the crop tool to remove any inaccurate or motor-assisted portions at the start or end of the activity (including time recorded while in a vehicle). If you recorded a car ride, see bad GPS data, or motor pacing in the middle of your activity, you can split the activity on the Web Activity page at the start of the affected portion, then crop the bad data. If the activity doesn't need to appear on your Strava account at all (for example, if it's a duplicate), you can delete it. On the Strava app, this option is found under the three-dot menu on the Activity page. If you recorded the activity on a third-party GPS device and notice the elevation data is inaccurate, tap or click Correct Elevation to reprocess the activity's elevation data. On the Strava app, this option is found under the three-dot menu on the Activity page. If the GPS data for your activity is inaccurate, click Correct Distance in the three-dot menu on the Activity page on the Strava website to reprocess the activity's distance. If available, select the option in the flag banner's dropdown menu to confirm you have reviewed the activity and that it is correct. If the activity is flagged a second time, this option will not appear. Choose one of the other options above to resolve the flag instead. If none of the other options apply to your activity, contact Strava Support. Some activities are partially flagged without any visible indicator on the activity page, in your feed, or on the My Activities page. If you believe your activity may be partially flagged but don't see any of the banners described above, contact Strava Support for help resolving it. If the activity does violate the segment leaderboard guidelines and cannot be fixed using one of the options above, you can: Set the Privacy Controls for who can see your activity to "Followers." Segmented efforts from your activity will still appear on the "My Results" leaderboard, but not on the "All Time" or other public leaderboards. Please note that an activity will still be excluded from challenges and club leaderboards while set to "Followers." Leave the activity flagged. Leaving the activity flagged will keep it public and retain your segment times, but they will not be included in leaderboards. Besides seeing a flag banner on the activity page, there are no negative repercussions for having a flagged activity. Set the privacy controls for those who can see your activity to Only You . This will remove the activity from public leaderboards, challenges, and club leaderboards and hide it from the public. You will still be able to see your segment times. Confirming Activity Type Strava can detect whether an uploaded ride activity was recorded on an e-bike. When the system flags a ride as potentially being an e-bike ride, a banner will appear. Will this banner ask for confirmation: was the activity a Ride or an e-bike ride? After selecting an option, the page will refresh, and segment results will be available. To ensure accurate placement on segment leaderboards, please respond truthfully. Related Articles What Are Excluded Segment Efforts on Strava? Virtual Trainer Activities on Strava Segment Leaderboard Guidelines How Do I Use the Crop Tool on My Activities? The Activity Flag: Remove an Activity's Segment Results from the Leaderboard Did this answer your question? Disappointed Reaction 😞 Neutral Reaction 😐 Smiley Reaction 😃 Table of contents Viewing Your Flagged Activities What to Do If Your Activity Is Flagged Confirming Activity Type Ask our Chatbot
