SOURCE: https://support.strava.com/en-us/articles/15402094-how-do-i-use-effort-comparison-on-strava
TITLE: How Do I Use Effort Comparison on Strava?
---
How Do I Use Effort Comparison on Strava? | Strava Help Center Skip to main content Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Search for articles... All Collections Segments and Routes Segment Leaderboard and Efforts How Do I Use Effort Comparison on Strava? How Do I Use Effort Comparison on Strava? Learn how the Strava Effort Comparison tool lets subscribers compare segment efforts side by side using an athlete roster, map pins, and elevation charts. Written by Marie Updated over 2 weeks ago Table of contents How It Works FAQs Effort Comparison allows Strava subscribers to compare performances on segments. From your activity overview on the Strava website, click the segment you wish to compare to open the detail panel and select Compare . You can also select Compare Efforts from a segment overview page. How It Works The effort roster lists the efforts being compared. These could be efforts from two different athletes (the default is yourself and the CR/KOM/QOM) or two efforts by the same athlete (your latest effort and your PR, for example). The first effort in the roster is considered the "baseline" to which other efforts are compared. You can toggle an athlete from the roster into the baseline by clicking the up arrow on the right-hand side of an effort's roster row. Customize the efforts compared in the roster by choosing efforts and athletes from the leaderboard below the graph. Select the plus sign to add an athlete to the roster and the X icon to remove an athlete. ​ Each athlete is represented as a pin on the map to show relative position over the course of the segment effort. Interacting with the chart below allows the user to move the pins forward and backward along the segment based on the GPS position. The chart depicts the segment's elevation profile and the time gaps between compared athletes at any given point along the segment. Hovering over the chart moves the "point of action," and clicking the Play button on the scrubber below triggers a 20-second playback of the virtual race. FAQs What do the lines on the chart represent? The colored lines on the chart represent the time gaps of the athletes in the roster relative to the black or "baseline" effort. Scale and units of time are described on the right-hand side of the chart, and the x-axis represents the distance along the segment. When the colored line is above the baseline, it means that the athlete's effort was ahead of the baseline at that particular mile or kilometer. When the colored line is below, it means that the athlete was behind. What are the minimum browser requirements for Effort Comparison? The Effort Comparison tool utilizes modern browser technologies and standards. For that reason, we suggest upgrading to the latest version of your preferred browser. What about mobile devices? At this time, Effort Comparison is only available on the Strava website. Related Articles How Do I Use Strava Live Segments on Rouvy? How Do I Use Strava Live Segments on My Garmin Edge 1030? Why Is There Resting Time in My Segment Efforts on Strava? How Do I View My Segment Results on Strava? How Do I Use My Best Efforts Power Curve on Strava? Did this answer your question? Disappointed Reaction 😞 Neutral Reaction 😐 Smiley Reaction 😃 Table of contents How It Works FAQs Ask our Chatbot
