SOURCE: https://support.strava.com/en-us/articles/15401804-moving-time-speed-and-pace-calculations
TITLE: Moving Time, Speed, and Pace Calculations
FOUND-VIA: Strava moving time elapsed time auto pause article
---
Moving Time, Speed, and Pace Calculations | Strava Help Center Skip to main content Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Search for articles... All Collections Activity Analysis and Stats Stats, Metrics, and Performance Moving Time, Speed, and Pace Calculations Moving Time, Speed, and Pace Calculations Learn how Strava calculates moving time versus elapsed time, and why your speed or pace may differ from a friend's activity or your GPS device readings. Written by Marie Updated over 2 weeks ago Table of contents What Is the Difference Between Moving Time and Elapsed Time? When Does Strava Show Moving Time, and When Does It Show Elapsed Time? Why Is My Activity's Moving Time Different Than My Friend's? Why Does My Activity's Average Speed on Strava Differ From My GPS Device? Why Is My Max Speed So High? What Is the Difference Between Moving Time and Elapsed Time? Elapsed time is the duration from the moment you hit start on your device or phone to the moment you finish the activity. It includes stoplights, coffee breaks, bathroom breaks, and photo stops. Moving time, however, measures how long you were active. Strava will attempt to calculate this based on your activity's GPS locations, distance, and speed. We will forgo our run calculation if you use your pause button and instead read the moving time directly from the device. When Does Strava Show Moving Time, and When Does It Show Elapsed Time? We show both moving and elapsed time in any activity's details. Because moving time is the best measure of how long you are active, especially for sports like running and cycling, Strava will generally prioritize moving time and pace based on moving time in places like the activity feed, activity screens, pages, challenges, goals, and stats. Some exceptions: If a run activity is tagged as a race, we will use elapsed time (and speed/pace based on it), since all stops count toward your race time. Certain sports lend themselves better to elapsed time, including indoor ones like Yoga and Weight Training, and some outdoor ones like Skiing and Surfing (note that speed for Skis is still based on moving time). Segments and Best Efforts are always based on elapsed time, as these are similar to races in that resting time is part of how long it takes you to complete them from start to finish. Why Is My Activity's Moving Time Different Than My Friend's? Strava relies on GPS data when recording cycling activities to determine whether or not you are moving. A poor GPS connection can lead to false positives if your activity's GPS data tells Strava you are moving when you aren't. Things like GPS drift, GPS signal loss, or a jumpy GPS track can also cause your activity to report a distance that's more or less than you actually traveled. If, for example, your bad GPS data tells Strava that you traveled a longer distance than your friend in the same amount of time, you can expect different average speed calculations. When recording running activities, Strava uses your device's accelerometer to detect running motion. You can control your moving time when recording a run with the Strava mobile app by manually pausing the app whenever you want to rest. If you choose this option but are inconsistent, you might end up with an inflated moving time. Why Does My Activity's Average Speed on Strava Differ From My GPS Device? Strava will use the recorded GPS data when uploading rides to calculate our version of your moving time. During the upload process, whether you recorded with our mobile app or a third-party device, Strava relies on a speed threshold to determine whether or not you are resting. Your device or platform may use a different method from Strava to calculate your stats. For example, consider the process of determining how much time is spent resting versus moving in an activity. What constitutes a rest? Is it when you rest for 1, 3, 10, or 20 seconds? And what does your speed have to fall below for you to be considered at rest? One second might capture too many false positives, and 20 seconds may be too strict. One calculation isn't necessarily correct or incorrect, but we feel we use standards that most athletes would agree upon. When uploading runs, Strava relies on the recorded "timer time," which is when the app or device was unpaused, to determine moving time. As long as your device records conventional pauses, Strava will respect any pauses in the file, whether your device pauses automatically or you manually hit the pause button. It's important to remember that if you choose to pause, you must do so consistently. If there are any pause events in your activity file, our server will not remove any additional resting time. If you do not pause at all, our server will calculate moving time based on the recorded GPS data. Again, even if the elapsed time is the same, Strava may calculate moving time differently from other platforms. Why Is My Max Speed So High? Strava calculates your max speed, so GPS errors can cause the value to be higher than expected. Strava looks for the fastest speed recorded between any two GPS coordinates on your activity to calculate max speed. If, for example, one GPS coordinate is recorded ±50ft from where you actually are, and the next GPS coordinate is also recorded ±50ft from where you actually are in the other direction, Strava will think you are moving faster than you really are because the distance between the two GPS coordinates isn't accurate. There is a little smoothing on the Analysis graph because we do not plot every data point, but rather every three or so, to make it readable. If you look at the analysis graph, you usually won't find the same max speed as is reported in the activity stats because the graph is smoothed. Related Articles Is the moving time too short and the pace too fast on Suunto activities? Pace/Speed Why Is There Resting Time in My Segment Efforts on Strava? How Distance is Calculated Auto-Pause Did this answer your question? Disappointed Reaction 😞 Neutral Reaction 😐 Smiley Reaction 😃 Table of contents What Is the Difference Between Moving Time and Elapsed Time? When Does Strava Show Moving Time, and When Does It Show Elapsed Time? Why Is My Activity's Moving Time Different Than My Friend's? Why Does My Activity's Average Speed on Strava Differ From My GPS Device? Why Is My Max Speed So High? Ask our Chatbot
