SOURCE: https://support.strava.com/en-us/articles/15402161-power
TITLE: Power
---
Power | Strava Help Center Skip to main content Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Search for articles... All Collections Activity Analysis and Stats Stats, Metrics, and Performance Power Power Learn how Strava measures your power output in watts, compares it to your FTP, and uses your Power Curve to track cycling and running performance over time. Written by Marie Updated over 2 weeks ago Table of contents What Is It? How Do I Use This? Available Features Calculating Your FTP FTP Management in Settings What Is It? Power is the amount of energy a cyclist or runner is generating, measured in watts. Your power as a percentage of functional threshold power (FTP), or the number of watts you can hold for one hour, is a key indicator of effort level and helps determine the zone or zones you worked out in. (You can change or enter your FTP in profile settings.) A power meter or smart trainer is required to track this for cycling. For running, the estimate is based on your weight and pace. How Do I Use This? Overall, your power gives you a good read on how strong you were: the higher the number, the easier it felt, the better. The Power chart displays your power output throughout your activity, showing average and maximum power below the chart. This power graph is overlaid on an elevation chart, allowing you to observe the real-time impact of elevation changes on your power output. If your activity displays Power Zones (a power meter is required), you can also see the impact this activity had on your training: Z1-2 is easy and ideal for recovery, Z2-3 is good for moderate endurance, and Z4 and up is considered intense. For cyclists, your Power Curve shows the maximum power you held for various time intervals during your ride (for example, 5 seconds, 5 minutes), and you can compare it to previous Power Curves to see if you're improving. Strava subscribers who ride with power meters can start training more intelligently with advanced power training analysis. Available Features Weighted Average Power looks at all of your power variations and provides an average power for your ride. This is a better indicator of your overall effort than simply taking your average power. Training Load is calculated by comparing your power during a ride with your Functional Threshold Power (FTP) and seeing how much load you put on your body during the workout. Training Load is a great way to determine how much rest you need after your workouts. Intensity is Strava's way of showing how difficult a ride was. Strava looks at your Weighted Average Power for the ride and compares it to your FTP. For example, if your Weighted Average Power is 225W and your FTP is 300W, then your Intensity would be at 75%. Power Curve shows your best average power for time periods of one second up to the length of your ride. We pinpoint your best efforts during a ride and you can compare them with your best efforts in the last six weeks, the current year, and years past. The Power Curve can be displayed in Watts (W) or Watts per Kilogram (W/kg). Other athletes may be able to deduce weight using information displayed in the power curve. To control which stats are visible on your activities, see our article here . Power Distribution by Power Zones: While the Power Curve shows your best efforts over given periods, Power Zone charts break down each second of power from your ride by training zone based on your FTP. Power Distribution by 25W Increments: Similar to the Power Distribution by Power Zones, the Power Distribution by 25W Increments simply assigns each 1-second power interval to a 25W training zone, from 0 to the highest power output on the ride. Power Curve in Training Section: Similar to the Power Curves on your activities, the Power Curve in the Training section allows you to compare any two of your power curves. For example, you can compare the last six weeks with all previous years to see how you're progressing. Calculating Your FTP We recommend you test for your FTP at least every few weeks to a month while you're training. Here are some tips to get the most out of your FTP testing: It's extremely taxing on your body (and your training program) to continuously push out 60-minute max efforts. It's also difficult to find a stretch of road where you can ride for 60 minutes uninterrupted and maintain a steady wattage. Thus, the easiest way to calculate your FTP is to test your best average power for 20 minutes and then subtract 5%. We believe 20 minutes is enough time to stress the same physiological systems as a 60-minute effort would, and it is easier to consistently do within your season. Try to reproduce the same conditions for each test, for example, the same stretch of road or the same trainer/rollers. Make sure you are fresh (the previous few days should be light in terms of training load). Properly warm up. FTP Management in Settings On the Web: Go to your Settings page by hovering over your profile picture in the top right and selecting Settings . Click on the My Performance tab on the left side of the page. Click Add under Functional Threshold Power. You can also see your past FTP values here. From the Strava App: Select You > Profile and then select Settings . Scroll down, tap Training Zones , then tap Power . Enter your Functional Threshold Power in the appropriate field under Performance Potential. Related Articles Training Zones on Strava How Does the Power Curve Work for Cycling on Strava? Ride Activity Pages How Do I Use My Best Efforts Power Curve on Strava? Strava Training Glossary for Cycling Did this answer your question? Disappointed Reaction 😞 Neutral Reaction 😐 Smiley Reaction 😃 Table of contents What Is It? How Do I Use This? Available Features Calculating Your FTP FTP Management in Settings Ask our Chatbot
