SOURCE: https://support.strava.com/en-us/articles/15401794-relative-effort
TITLE: Relative Effort
---
Relative Effort | Strava Help Center Skip to main content Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Search for articles... All Collections Activity Analysis and Stats Stats, Metrics, and Performance Relative Effort Relative Effort Learn how Strava's Relative Effort measures cardiovascular work across different activities and sports using your heart rate data or Perceived Exertion. Written by Marie Updated over 2 weeks ago Table of contents How Does It Work? Relative Effort Graph FAQs How Does It Work? Relative Effort, found on the activity details page, measures how much cardiovascular work went into any activity that has heart rate data or Perceived Exertion . A short and hard activity can require just as much effort as a long and leisurely one, and Relative Effort makes it so you can compare the two. Not only that, but different activity types are weighted so that your efforts can be compared across sports, and your values are personalized to your own heart rate zones so you can even compare with other athletes. If you and a friend both ran your hardest 10K, your Relative Efforts would be similar even if your finishing times differ. Similarly, if you rode a bike as hard as you could for the same amount of time, your Relative Effort would be comparable. Relative Effort Graph Your Relative Effort graph can be accessed from the activity details page, your profile page on the Strava mobile app or website, or from the mobile app by selecting You > Progress . The Relative Effort graph shows the cumulative training load from your week so far. It also indicates how you're trending week over week and provides a weekly Relative Effort range, shown by the white band in the middle of the graph. This area gives you a suggested range to hit based on your three-week average. You can choose to aim within, above, or below your range depending on your training and goals: Within range: Your training aligns with your three-week average, which can help build or maintain fitness while reducing the risk of overtraining. Below range: You're taking it easy. This isn't a bad thing. Down weeks are a great way to recover from big efforts or gear up for more. Above range: You're straining more than usual this week. Big efforts can help lead to fitness gains, but be sure to follow them with proper recovery. FAQs How Can I Make Sure My Weekly Range Is Accurate? Your weekly range becomes more accurate the more your uploads represent your normal activity level. Keep on recording. Why Can't I See Relative Effort for My Activity? Relative Effort is only available for subscribers on activities that contain heart rate data or have a Perceived Exertion entered. If your activity has heart rate data and you don't see it on Strava, check that you've allowed Strava to access health-related data . How Can I Hide Relative Effort on an Activity? The Hide Stats feature will remove the heart rate on your activity and will cause the Relative Effort score to be hidden. You will continue to see the Relative Effort score when viewing your activity, but other athletes will not see the score. Learn more on our Strava Blog . Related Articles Relative Effort on Suunto devices Heart Rate Fitness Live Relative Effort on Wahoo devices Run Activity Pages Did this answer your question? Disappointed Reaction 😞 Neutral Reaction 😐 Smiley Reaction 😃 Table of contents How Does It Work? Relative Effort Graph FAQs Ask our Chatbot
