SOURCE: https://support.strava.com/en-us/articles/15401945-strava-segments
TITLE: Strava Segments
---
Strava Segments | Strava Help Center Skip to main content Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Search for articles... All Collections Segments and Routes Segments: Getting Started Strava Segments Strava Segments Learn what Strava segments are, how to find and customize them, what happens to yours if you delete your account, and how segment verification actually works. Written by Marie Updated over 2 weeks ago Table of contents My Segments What Happens to My Segments If I Delete My Account? Changes to Segments Verified Segments Segments are one of Strava's coolest features. They are portions of roads or trails created by members where athletes can compare times. Subscribe to Strava to get the most out of Strava segments. Understand why a segment may not have matched your activity and what you can do about it. Climbing segments (for cyclists) are automatically categorized HC, 1, 2, 3, or 4 as you see in the Tour de France. More information on how we categorize climbs. See Optimizing Segment Creation for what kind of segments work the best and which don't. With a Strava subscription, you can use segments to compare your own times or to compare with other users' times who have also completed the segment. Segments are a great way to keep track of your performance progress and see how your training compares to others. To learn how to customize your segment viewing preferences on your activities, see Hide/Unhide Segments . To find segments in your area or in a new area, see How to Find Segments . If you want to be the King of the Mountain (KOM), Queen of the Mountain (QOM), or Course Record (CR) holder, you have to have the fastest time on a segment. For a glossary on Segment Achievement medals and how you get them, see Segment Achievement Awards. My Segments There are three categories under "My Segments": my KOMs/QOMs/CRs, which lists those segments in which you are currently first place; Segment Preferences, which keeps track of what segments you have hidden (essentially deleted them from your viewing experience but not for other users) or unhidden (chosen to view that others have hidden); and Created Segments, those you have personally created and which you effectively "own." What Happens to My Segments If I Delete My Account? Any private segments you created will be deleted when you delete your account. Any public segments or routes you've created, including their current titles, will remain on the Strava platform, allowing the community to continue recording and competing on them. As always, we encourage you to refrain from using personally identifiable information in your titles. Your original activity and GPS data will no longer be linked to the segment, and your activities will no longer appear on the segment leaderboards. If you would like to remove a public segment from Strava regardless of the above, you can delete the segment before deleting your account. There is no way to make a public segment private. Changes to Segments We don't typically make changes to segments. However, in order to ensure Strava segments are the most useful for the Strava community, we may edit, adjust, make private, or delete segments at any time. Learn more about our segment cleanup efforts here. Verified Segments Strava also occasionally "verifies" top segments so they can be most visible and useful to the community. Learn more about Verified Segments here . Related Articles How Do I Use Strava Live Segments on Wahoo Devices? How Do I Use Strava Live Segments on My Mio Cyclo? How Do I Find Segments on the Strava Website? What’s a Segment? How Do Live Segments Work on Strava? Did this answer your question? Disappointed Reaction 😞 Neutral Reaction 😐 Smiley Reaction 😃 Table of contents My Segments What Happens to My Segments If I Delete My Account? Changes to Segments Verified Segments Ask our Chatbot
