SOURCE: https://support.strava.com/en-us/articles/15401646-what-are-best-efforts-on-strava
TITLE: What Are Best Efforts on Strava?
---
What Are Best Efforts on Strava? | Strava Help Center Skip to main content Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Search for articles... All Collections Activity Analysis and Stats Best Efforts and Training Zones What Are Best Efforts on Strava? What Are Best Efforts on Strava? See your running and cycling PRs across benchmark distances and power outputs with Best Efforts. Learn how to view, edit, and remove tracked performances. Written by Marie Updated over 2 weeks ago Table of contents Viewing Best Efforts Annual Best Efforts Best Performances From Each Activity Remove Effort Edit Effort: Running Only See your personal records (PRs) and performance trends in several running and cycling categories with Best Efforts. Best Efforts tracks your fastest times at benchmark running and cycling distances, as well as your best power outputs on the bike. Your performances are automatically tracked using GPS and power data from your running and cycling activities. You can edit an effort or remove it from Best Efforts if needed. For more information and troubleshooting help with Best Efforts, tap here . Viewing Best Efforts On the mobile app, you can view your Best Efforts within relevant activities. Subscribers can see their most recent top three lifetime performances on the Progress tab. From there, you can explore your top performances across different distances, durations, and effort types. In the Best Efforts tab, Subscribers can track their all-time top performances, including: Your fastest result (PR) Your second and third best efforts You can tap any results to view the activity where it was achieved. Annual Best Efforts Within each category on the Best Efforts tab, Subscribers can tap "View Analysis" to explore: Your best performances by year Your top efforts within each year A trend graph showing how your performance is changing over time Top performances each year are highlighted to help you quickly see your progress and consistency. Analysis is not available for the cycling power category; instead, click View Power Curve to see your best power outputs over time. Best Performances From Each Activity On each run and ride you upload, the activity details page includes a Best Efforts section with your fastest times for every benchmark distance and/or power interval you covered in that activity. The activity will also note if you recorded a lifetime top three achievement or a top three annual achievement. Remove Effort Select "Remove Effort" under a result to remove the performance from your Best Efforts history and erase the achievement banner from the activity. This will not delete the activity. If you remove a PR, your next fastest time will become your PR. Edit Effort: Running Only If you know a running performance is inaccurate, you can correct it. Click the "Edit Time" box under the result to enter a precise chip time from a race or correct for faulty GPS data. Changes will be reflected in Best Efforts, PR Analysis and the Results module of the activity. This might cause the achievement banner to be removed from the activity. The GPS data of the activity cannot be altered. Related Articles How Do Best-Effort Challenges Work on Strava? How Do Best Efforts Work for Cycling on Strava? How Does the Power Curve Work for Cycling on Strava? How Do Best Efforts Work for Running on Strava? Troubleshooting Best Efforts Did this answer your question? Disappointed Reaction 😞 Neutral Reaction 😐 Smiley Reaction 😃 Table of contents Viewing Best Efforts Annual Best Efforts Best Performances From Each Activity Remove Effort Edit Effort: Running Only Ask our Chatbot
