SOURCE: https://support.strava.com/en-us/articles/15402042-what-s-a-segment
TITLE: What’s a Segment?
---
What’s a Segment? | Strava Help Center Skip to main content Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Search for articles... All Collections Segments and Routes Segments: Getting Started What’s a Segment? What’s a Segment? Learn what a Strava segment is and how KOM, QOM, trophy, medal, and Local Legend achievements are earned for your best performances on segments today. Written by Marie Updated over 2 weeks ago Table of contents Earning Achievements Crown — King/Queen of the Mountain (KOM/QOM) or Course Record (CR) Trophy — Overall Top 10 Placement Medal — Personal Top 3 Placement Laurel Crown — Local Legend Your GPS-based activities can be broken down into smaller sections called segments. Segments designate specific features or portions of a route, such as a climb, a tricky stretch of trail, or a section of an open-water swim. Each time you complete a segment, your time is recorded. With a Strava subscription, you can compare it to previous efforts and those of your friends and other athletes. Each activity type has its segments and leaderboards. Cyclists compete with cyclists, runners compete with runners, swimmers with swimmers, hikers with hikers, etc. You'll find that many of your activities contain pre-existing segments, but you can also create your own using the Create Segment tool found on your activity pages on the web. Earning Achievements When you upload an activity to Strava as a subscriber, you may be awarded "achievements" for outstanding performances on the traverse segments. The different types of achievements are listed below. Crown — King/Queen of the Mountain (KOM/QOM) or Course Record (CR) The crown signifies the top performer in a given segment. Crowns are awarded to the fastest athlete to date on a segment’s overall leaderboard. Your current all-time KOM/QOM/CR crowns are stored in a special list on Strava for your reference. Access the list under "KOMs/CRs/Top 10s" or "QOMs/CRs/Top 10s" from your profile page on the web or under “Segments” from your profile page on the mobile app. Trophy — Overall Top 10 Placement A trophy is awarded when you place near the top of an overall segment leaderboard. Trophies are awarded for 2nd- to 10th-place finishes in all-time efforts. Your current top 10 placements are stored in a special list on Strava for your reference. Access the list under "KOMs/CRs/Tops 10s" or "QOMs/CRs/Top 10s" from your profile page on the web or under “Segments” from your profile page on the mobile app. Medal — Personal Top 3 Placement Medals are awarded for your best personal performances on a segment. If you clock a new personal record on a segment, you'll receive a "PR" medal. Likewise, for your second and third fastest times. For runners, medals are also awarded for their best performances over the following distances: 400m, 1/2 mile, 1k, 1 mile, 5k, 10k, half marathon, and marathon. Your PRs (Personal Records) are private to you and aren’t affected by privacy settings. They will remain visible on your own activities, even when set to “Only You.” Public leaderboard achievements—like KOMs, QOMs, and Top 10s—will be lost if you change your activities privacy settings. Laurel Crown — Local Legend The laurel crown indicates that you are the Local Legend of a segment. To earn the Local Legend achievement, you must match the segment more times than any other athlete in the past 90 days. Related Articles How Does My Gender Setting Affect Strava Leaderboards? Strava Segments Your Activity's Top Results How Do I Flag a Segment as Hazardous on Strava? How Do Live Segments Work on Strava? Did this answer your question? Disappointed Reaction 😞 Neutral Reaction 😐 Smiley Reaction 😃 Table of contents Earning Achievements Crown — King/Queen of the Mountain (KOM/QOM) or Course Record (CR) Trophy — Overall Top 10 Placement Medal — Personal Top 3 Placement Laurel Crown — Local Legend Ask our Chatbot
