SOURCE: https://support.strava.com/en-us/articles/15402153-why-does-strava-say-time-information-is-missing-from-my-file
TITLE: Why Does Strava Say Time Information Is Missing From My File?
---
Why Does Strava Say Time Information Is Missing From My File? | Strava Help Center Skip to main content Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Search for articles... All Collections Devices and Third-Party Apps Troubleshooting Devices and File Uploads Why Does Strava Say Time Information Is Missing From My File? Why Does Strava Say Time Information Is Missing From My File? Learn why Strava rejects GPS files that are missing timestamp data, the common sources of these files, and how to upload a manual activity instead of the file. Written by Marie Updated over 2 weeks ago Table of contents What Does This Error Mean? Common Sources for Files Like This If, upon attempting to upload a GPS file, you see an error message telling you that "Time information is missing from the file," this means that your file is incompatible for upload to Strava. What Does This Error Mean? The problem is that your file likely contains only GPS data and no timestamp associated with each latitude and longitude coordinate. Opening your file in a text editor might reveal something like this: ​ <trkpt lat="37.7808230" lon="-122.3956800"> <ele>5.7</ele> </trkpt> ​ Strava can't calculate your speed and time on segments without timestamps, so the files will be rejected upon upload. Common Sources for Files Like This If you are a Strava subscriber, you have the ability to download the .GPX files from other users' activities. However, these files will not contain time information. If you are trying to 'copy' an activity from another Strava user with whom you ran or rode, you can do so by asking them to export and send you their own .GPX file; when they do so that file will contain timestamps. Another common source for these files is .GPX files exported directly from MapMyFitness sites. These files do not contain workout data, which includes timestamps. If you can not obtain GPS files with time information you can always create a manual activity on Strava. As always, if you have any additional questions please proceed with submitting a support ticket . Related Articles How Do I Export My Strava Data? How do I Get My Activities to Strava? Why Won't my Empty File Upload to Strava? Why Does Strava Say My GPS File Has Improperly Formatted Data? Why Does Strava Say My .FIT File Is Corrupted? Did this answer your question? Disappointed Reaction 😞 Neutral Reaction 😐 Smiley Reaction 😃 Table of contents What Does This Error Mean? Common Sources for Files Like This Ask our Chatbot
