SOURCE: https://support.strava.com/en-us/articles/15402151-why-does-strava-say-my-garmin-file-has-corrupted-time-data
TITLE: Why Does Strava Say My Garmin File Has Corrupted Time Data?
---
Why Does Strava Say My Garmin File Has Corrupted Time Data? | Strava Help Center Skip to main content Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Search for articles... All Collections Devices and Third-Party Apps Troubleshooting Devices and File Uploads Why Does Strava Say My Garmin File Has Corrupted Time Data? Why Does Strava Say My Garmin File Has Corrupted Time Data? Fix the Corrupted Time Data error when uploading a Garmin file to Strava using the Corrupt Time Fixer or Time Adjuster tools, then re-upload the file. Written by Marie Updated over 2 weeks ago Table of contents What Is Garmin Bad Time Data? How to Fix Garmin Bad Time Data How to Prevent Garmin From Producing Time Errors If you experienced the error message "Corrupted time data" after uploading your Garmin file to Strava, we've found some problems with the time data in your file, and it can't be uploaded to Strava as is. What Is Garmin Bad Time Data? The issue is that at some point in the file, the time data (specifically the day/month/year, not the hours/minutes) jumps into the future. It can be just a day or two, or 20-30 years. This is something we're seeing occasionally, mostly from Garmin Edge 500s, 1000s, and Fenix's. How to Fix Garmin Bad Time Data Open https://www.fitfiletools.com/#/ctf#view and scroll to the bottom where it says "Corrupt Time Fixer." Browse your computer to find the .fit file of the activity and hit "Go." If you cannot find or do not have access to the .fit file, you can export files from Garmin Connect. Follow the prompt to download the fixed file to your computer. The fixed file will have "fitfiletools" in the name. Log in to Strava and upload the fixed file to your Strava account. If the above fixer does not work, that means your files have a slightly different problem with the date in your file. Please use the steps above, but in step 1, instead of using the Corrupt Time, Fixer uses the Time Adjuster to correct the date and time of the activity. Then download the file to your computer and upload it to your Strava account . If you're still experiencing problems upon uploading this file, proceed with submitting a support ticket. Please be sure to include the original .fit and .tcx version of the file as well as a link to the activity page (if the file was able to upload). To export a FIT/TCX file, please see this article on how to export files from Garmin Connect. Keep in mind, we may not be able to fix the file, but we will certainly do what we can. How to Prevent Garmin From Producing Time Errors Check for any software updates for your Garmin and try a hard reset on the device. You may also want to contact Garmin support and request that they address the underlying issue and prevent this from happening again. Related Articles Import Historical Data From Garmin Connect Why Won't my Empty File Upload to Strava? Why Does Strava Say My GPS File Has Improperly Formatted Data? Why Won't My Course File Upload to Strava? Why Does Strava Say My .FIT File Is Corrupted? Did this answer your question? Disappointed Reaction 😞 Neutral Reaction 😐 Smiley Reaction 😃 Table of contents What Is Garmin Bad Time Data? How to Fix Garmin Bad Time Data How to Prevent Garmin From Producing Time Errors Ask our Chatbot
