SOURCE: https://support.strava.com/en-us/articles/15402160-why-won-t-my-empty-file-upload-to-strava
TITLE: Why Won't my Empty File Upload to Strava?
---
Why Won't my Empty File Upload to Strava? | Strava Help Center Skip to main content Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Search for articles... All Collections Recording and Uploading Activities Uploading Activities Why Won't my Empty File Upload to Strava? Why Won't my Empty File Upload to Strava? Fix the Empty file upload error on Strava, caused by missing GPS data from overwritten Garmin files or corrupted FIT files, plus the best next steps to try. Written by Marie Updated over 3 weeks ago If you try to upload a GPS file and see an error message that your file is "Empty," it's incompatible with Strava. This error happens when there's no GPS data in the file you're trying to upload, primarily for two reasons: Most often, if you get this error uploading a .TCX file, it's because your Garmin has overwritten an older activity with a more recent one. If you've already uploaded your activities to Garmin Connect or Garmin Training Center, you should be able to export a .TCX file from there instead, as long as the original activity includes your actual mapped route rather than just time and distance totals. If you get this error when uploading a .FIT file, it's likely due to corruption in the file itself — it's often extremely small, sometimes just 72 bytes. Unfortunately, in both cases the files can't be repaired to make them compatible with Strava. Your best options are to ask a friend you recorded the activity with to share their original file for you to upload, invite you to the activity , or create a manual activity . If you have additional questions, please create a support ticket . Related Articles How do I Get My Activities to Strava? Why Does Strava Say My Garmin File Has Corrupted Time Data? Why Does Strava Say My GPS File Has Improperly Formatted Data? Why Won't My Course File Upload to Strava? Why Does Strava Say My .FIT File Is Corrupted? Did this answer your question? Disappointed Reaction 😞 Neutral Reaction 😐 Smiley Reaction 😃 Ask our Chatbot
