SOURCE: https://support.strava.com/en-us/articles/15402183-why-does-strava-say-my-fit-file-is-corrupted
TITLE: Why Does Strava Say My .FIT File Is Corrupted?
---
Why Does Strava Say My .FIT File Is Corrupted? | Strava Help Center Skip to main content Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Search for articles... All Collections Devices and Third-Party Apps Troubleshooting Devices and File Uploads Why Does Strava Say My .FIT File Is Corrupted? Why Does Strava Say My .FIT File Is Corrupted? Learn why Strava shows a partially corrupted file error message after a Garmin device upload, what data is recoverable, and how to submit a support ticket. Written by Marie Updated over 2 weeks ago If upon uploading an activity from your Garmin device you see an error message telling you that your upload was a "partially corrupted file, could be truncated," this means that there was some recording error on your device, and the file is at least partially corrupted. Strava has retained as much information as possible from the file, and that data will now be available on your Strava account. If a portion of your activity is missing from the upload, there's unfortunately no way to recover the remainder. It might help to reset your GPS device, although these errors occur relatively infrequently. If you have any additional questions, please create a support ticket. Related Articles Garmin and Strava Why Does Strava Say My Garmin File Has Corrupted Time Data? Why Won't my Empty File Upload to Strava? Why Does Strava Say My GPS File Has Improperly Formatted Data? Why Won't My Course File Upload to Strava? Did this answer your question? Disappointed Reaction 😞 Neutral Reaction 😐 Smiley Reaction 😃 Ask our Chatbot
