SOURCE: https://support.strava.com/en-us/articles/15401846-why-does-my-activity-have-the-wrong-date-or-start-time
TITLE: Why Does My Activity Have the Wrong Date or Start Time?
---
Why Does My Activity Have the Wrong Date or Start Time? | Strava Help Center Skip to main content Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Search for articles... All Collections Activity Analysis and Stats Editing and Managing Activities Why Does My Activity Have the Wrong Date or Start Time? Why Does My Activity Have the Wrong Date or Start Time? Fix a Strava activity showing the wrong date or start time by checking your time zone, GPS rollover issues, and using the split or crop tool to fix it. Written by Marie Updated over 2 weeks ago There are several reasons your activity appears to start at the wrong time or on the wrong date. If an activity doesn't contain GPS data, check that your time zone is set correctly in your profile settings. Some devices include time zone information for non-GPS activities, but if yours doesn't, Strava defaults to the time zone listed on your profile. Occasionally, Strava can get stuck and fail to update this automatically. You can adjust your timezone using these instructions, which should resolve the issue for future uploads. On the Strava website, open the dropdown menu under your profile picture, then select Settings . Replace your current location with Los Angeles > Save > Refresh Page . Enter your correct location > Save > Refresh Page . Confirm that your time zone is now set properly. Unfortunately, the only way to fix the timestamps on your existing activities is to re-upload them. This will require deleting any existing versions of that activity so the new version(s) can be uploaded. This will remove all kudos, comments, and photos associated with the original activity. If you recorded with the Strava mobile app and the activity's year is in the 2000s, you may be experiencing an issue related to a GPS rollover that occurred on April 6, 2019. Learn more here . Check the Strava website to view the activity's total elapsed time. If the total elapsed time is very large, the GPS device has recorded data on different days. If two activities are recorded together, use the split activity tool . If only a few points at the beginning or end of your file have the wrong date, consider trimming this data with the activity crop tool . If you're recording with the Strava Android app, make sure your phone's clock is set to update automatically in your phone's settings. Related Articles Why Is There No Map on My Activity? How Do I Resolve an Activity Flag on Strava? Why Are My Activities Not Syncing or Showing the Wrong Start Time Due to GPS Rollovers? Moving Time, Speed, and Pace Calculations How Does Strava Order My Activity Feed? Did this answer your question? Disappointed Reaction 😞 Neutral Reaction 😐 Smiley Reaction 😃 Ask our Chatbot
