SOURCE: https://support.strava.com/en-us/articles/15402162-why-does-strava-say-my-gps-file-has-improperly-formatted-data
TITLE: Why Does Strava Say My GPS File Has Improperly Formatted Data?
---
Why Does Strava Say My GPS File Has Improperly Formatted Data? | Strava Help Center Skip to main content Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Português do Brasil Čeština Dansk Nederlands English (United States) Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Bahasa Melayu Norsk Polski Português Pусский 简体中文 Español Svenska ภาษาไทย 繁體中文 Türkçe Tiếng Việt English (United States) Search for articles... All Collections Devices and Third-Party Apps Troubleshooting Devices and File Uploads Why Does Strava Say My GPS File Has Improperly Formatted Data? Why Does Strava Say My GPS File Has Improperly Formatted Data? Learn why Strava rejects GPS files with improperly formatted data, what commonly causes this upload error, and how to fix it on your Garmin device today. Written by Marie Updated over 2 weeks ago If, upon attempting to upload a GPS file, you see an error message indicating that your file has "Improperly formatted data," it means your file is incompatible with Strava for upload. There are many things that can cause this, but essentially, the issue is that the data in your file has either been corrupted, is missing information, or is improperly formatted. Strava accepts files that conform to the .FIT, .GPX, and .TCX formats. These formats can be very sensitive to the exact syntax of their data; meaning that a single stray punctuation mark or an opening bracket that is not properly closed can cause the file to generate this error upon upload. We often see these files come from Garmin devices if the device has experienced a recording error, or from 3rd party tools used to manually create or convert GPX files. If your device records a poorly formatted file, it can sometimes help to perform a hard reset or contact the manufacturer. Related Articles How do I Get My Activities to Strava? Why Does Strava Say My Garmin File Has Corrupted Time Data? Why Does Strava Say Time Information Is Missing From My File? Why Won't my Empty File Upload to Strava? Why Won't My Course File Upload to Strava? Did this answer your question? Disappointed Reaction 😞 Neutral Reaction 😐 Smiley Reaction 😃 Ask our Chatbot
